. Network (packet) layer: Two major functions in the net-
work layer are routing control and congestion control.
Routing control is the process for maintaining a routing
table and determining optimum routing over a network
connection. Congestion control is needed when there are
too many packets queued for a system and there is no
space to store them. This is normally happens in a data-
gram-type of connection, where the network resources
for a connection are not preallocated. The network layer
is also responsible for multiplexing multiple network
connections over a data link connection to maximize its
use. Flow control is provided at the network layer as well.
. Transport layer: This layer provides error-free end user
transmission. To improve the utilization, it multiplexes
multiple transport connections over a network connec-
tion. It controls data ﬂow to prevent from overloading
network resources just like the ﬂow control function
provided at the data link and network layers. This layer
and layers above it are end-to-end, peer-to-peer proto-
cols, for which their protocol data units (PDU) are pro-
cessed between two end systems. The layers below the