signal transition. Thus, 2(N-1) bits are sufﬁcient to represent
the whole set of couplings in an N-bit bus per bus cycle.
According to the types of correlated transition between neigh-
boring busses, the coupling encoder generates a codeword as
follows: 00 for a type III or IV transition, 01 for a type I
transition, and 11 for a type II transition. The reason 11 is
assigned to a type II transition is that switchings in different
directions require the change in polarity of the charge stored in
the coupling capacitance, hence consuming about twice the
amount of charge required for a type I transition. The code-
word 11, instead of 10, helps to make a decision on data
inversion using a majority voter because the majority voter
outputs high when at least eight input lines are high out of
ﬁfteen inputs. The majority voter can be implemented by using
either full-adder circuitry or resistors and a voltage compara-
tor. The control signal inv can be transmitted to the receiver
using extra bus lines or extra transfer cycles. One problem of
additional bus lines for control is the area overhead that may
not be allowed due to physical constraints. In some cases,
widening the space between signal bus lines can reduce the
coupling effects more effectively than introducing extra con-
trol lines because the coupling capacitance is inversely propor-
tional to net space. Temporal redundancy is an alternative and
uses extra clock cycles to transfer control signals.