class of guided wave structures. The emphasis is on non-TEM
structures where the guided waves are dispersive. The mode
characteristics of rectangular metallic waveguides, circular me-
tallic waveguides, microstrip lines, slot lines, coplanar wave-
guides, and the circular dielectric waveguides are summarized.
In wireless communication systems, it is necessary to send
signals in the form of electromagnetic waves through air, such
as in radio or television broadcasting, or via point-to-point
microwave links. An antenna is a device for transmission or
reception of electromagnetic signals. Chapter 6 describes the
basic theory of antennas and their arrays. This chapter presents
the fundamental properties of electromagnetic waves emanat-
ing from any antenna as well as the antenna parameters,
including polarization, radiation patterns, beam width, side
lobe level, efÔ¨Åciency, gain, bandwidth, input impedance, direc-
tivity, and receiving cross section. Chapter 6 discusses the
radiation/reception properties of selected antenna structures,
including a dipole, a monopole, a wire-loop, a slot, and a
microstrip. The theory of antenna arrays made of a number
of individual antenna elements at different locations is also
discussed.