There are many possible antenna geometries in practical use
today, each having some desirable properties suited for speciﬁc
applications. This chapter has only discussed a few of the most
basic radiating elements. The reader may be referred to antenna
textbooks (Balanis, 1997; Kraus, 1950; Collin and Zucker, 1969;
Jasik, 1961; Schelkunoff and Friis, 1952; Kraus and Fleisch,
1999) for a more elaborate set of practical antenna geometries.
A few of the antenna geometries in common use are shown in
Figure 6.18: (A) a horn antenna, (B) a Yagi-Uda array, and (C) a
spiral plate antenna. A horn antenna is distinguished by its
feeding from a input waveguide. The Yagi-Uda array is popu-
larly used as a television antenna, having a high-gain radiation
along the end-ﬁre direction over a broad bandwidth. A much
broader bandwidth of radiation can be achieved by a class of
frequency-independent antennas, such as a spiral plate an-
tenna. In principle, one needs an inﬁnite-sized spiral structure
for an ideal frequency-independent operation. However, a prac-
tical spiral antenna will have to be truncated at a ﬁnite spiral
length. This would result in a ﬁnite, but large bandwidth. Other
frequency-independent antennas include conical spiral and log-
periodic structures.