going link. This process introduces some latency because the
routing tables are very large and table lookups take time. The
same process also needs to be repeated independently for every
incoming packet, even though all packets may belong to the
same ﬂow and may be going toward the same destination. This
shortcoming of IP routing can be removed by using IP switch-
ing, in which a short label is attached to a packet and updated
at every hop. When this modiﬁed packet arrives at a switch
(router in our previous description), this label is used to index
into a short switching table [an O(1) operation] to determine
the outgoing link and new label for the next hop. The old label
is then replaced by new label, and the packet is forwarded to
the next hop. All this can be easily done in hardware and
results in very high speeds. This concept was applied earlier
in ATM for cell switching that used the VPI/VCI ﬁeld in the
packet as the label. MPLS introduces the same switching con-
cept in IP networks. It is called Multi-Protocol because this
technique can also be used with any network layer protocol
other than IP. Label switching provides a low-cost hardware
implementation, scalability to very high speeds, and ﬂexibility
in the management of trafﬁc ﬂows.