The focus of this chapter has been on fundamental ideas and
algorithms underlying the DT processing of speech. Indeed, it
is difﬁcult to ﬁnd a modern application of speech processing
that does not employ one or more of the algorithms discussed
here, and virtually all contemporary speech technology begins
with some variation of the linear DT model to which we
devoted much initial attention in this chapter. As a technology
with vast economic signiﬁcance, the amount of research and
development that has been, and continues to be, devoted to
speech processing is extraordinary. The commercial, military,
forensic, and other driving forces for speech technologies are
centered primarily in the broad areas of communications and
recognition. Modern communication networks, in their many
traditional and emerging forms, have created vast interest in
speech processing technologies, particularly with regard to
coding, compression, and security. At the same time, modern
communications systems have engendered a merging of sub-
specialties in signal processing as speech technologists ﬁnd
themselves increasingly working with image (and other data)
processing engineers, specialists in detection and estimation
theory, and computer hardware and software systems develop-
ers. Further, the global nature of communications has caused
some aspects of speech communications and recognition to
merge as well. ‘‘Recognition’’ was once envisioned as a quest