Voltage Transformer
Voltage transformers come in two basic solutions: potential
transformer (PT) with iron-core construction and capacitor
coupling voltage transformers (CVTs) that use a capacitor
coupling principle to lower the voltage level ﬁrst and then
use the iron-core transformer to get further reduction in
voltage. Both transformer types are typically free-standing.
PTs are used frequently to measure voltages at substation
busses, whereas CVTs may be used for the same measurement
purpose on individual transmission lines. Since the voltage
levels in the power system range well beyond kilovolt values,
the transformers are used to bring the voltages down to an
acceptable level used by protective relays. They come in stan-
dard solutions regarding the secondary voltage, typically 69.3 V
or 120 V, depending if either the line-to-ground or line-to-line
quantity is measured respectively. In an ideal case, both types
of instrument transformers are assumed to be operating as
voltage dividers, and the transformation is proportional to
their turns ratio. In practice, both designs may experience
speciﬁc deviations from the ideal case. In PTs, this may mani-
fest as a nonlinear behavior caused by the effects of the hyster-
esis. In CVTs, the abnormalities include various ringing effects