A waveguide can be deﬁned as a geometrical structure capable
of propagating electromagnetic energy in a preferred direction
in space within a certain frequency range. Usually, this direc-
tion is referred to as the direction of propagation, and the
frequency range is referred as the waveguide operating band-
width. The lower operating frequency is determined by the
electrical property of the guiding structure and does not nec-
essarily start from zero (dc ﬁeld) unless the guide is capable of
supporting transverse electromagnetic modes (TEM) as in the
case of a transmission line. It has been proven (Balanis, 1989)
that to support a TEM, a structure must be also capable of
supporting static ﬁeld distribution (multiconductor topology),
so structures made of a single conductor are not capable of
supporting TEMs. The higher operating frequency is usually
determined by the single-mode guide operation, which is the
highest frequency at which the waveguide operates while sup-
porting a single ﬁeld distribution usually referred as the fun-
damental mode. The propagation of an electromagnetic wave
inside a waveguide is quite different from the propagation of a
TEM wave, which usually occurs in a traditional transmission
line. This is because when a wave is introduced at one end of