After an initial delay because of the Bâ€“E capacitance, the
charge in the base begins to buildup, and the collector current
rises to its on-state value with the voltage clamped to Vd by the
diode. The voltage beings to fall rapidly once the device attains
on-state current. As the charge is injected into the drift region,
the gain of the transistor reduces and slows down the rate of
fall of voltage. This phase increases the overall device turn-on
time. The turn-off process involves removal of all the stored
charge in the transistor. The base current is driven negative to
remove the charge during turn-off. The negative base current
rapidly removes excess charge from the device. The base cur-
rent reversal is usually achieved gradually because abrupt re-
versal leads to a long current tail, thus increasing switching
loss. When the base current is reversed, the collector current
remains constant for a storage time, ts, until the drift region
comes out of high-level injection at one of its ends. After this
interval, the device enters quasisaturation, and voltage starts
rising slowly. Once the charge distribution reduces to zero at
the collector-base junction, the voltage rises rapidly until the
diode clamps it to the bus voltage. The collector current then
falls off toward zero and device is cut off.