accomplished by application of voltages or externally gener-
ated pressures. A few established and about 20 new companies
are offering systems, such as the so-called ‘‘lab on a chip,’’ for
analysis of biomedical materials in research laboratories and
for clinical medicine. These companies include Agilent, the
formed Hewlett Packard division (which is teamed with Cali-
per Technologies), and newcomers, such as Aclara, Micronics,
and Nanogen. Figure 6.8 shows a microﬂuidics substrate from
Micronics. The approach to DNA, protein, and cellular anal-
yses taken by these companies generally involves the use of
small plastic or glass microﬂuidics systems for mixing of
samples and reagents and for separations, in some cases. The
microﬂuidic elements are inserted into desktop machines that
provide other needed functions, such as power, control, and
display. The microﬂuidic structures are disposable, so they
avoid sample cross contamination. The small size of the key
microﬂuidic elements raises the possibility of having entire
handheld systems. This means that medical analyses can be
performed immediately at the point of care rather than later at
a central laboratory. Only very small samples (e.g., a drop of
blood) are needed for microﬂuidic analyzer systems. Cephied,
another microﬂuidics start-up, is designing a handheld blood
analyzer containing micromachined ﬂuidic elements.