Regularization
Inverse scattering is an ill-posed problem in the sense that its
solution is unstable with respect to the perturbation of the
measured data. Explicit evidence is the occurrence of inverting
an ill-conditioned matrix during the inversion process. For
example, matrix [At] in equation 10.69 is usually of high
condition-number inducing errors at each iterative step. To
address the ill-posed problem the regularization process is
usually used. The basic idea of regularization is to compute a
meaningful
the high-
frequency components associated with the small singular
values. If the inverse scattering problem is so formulated that
the convolution or Fourier transform is involved, the regular-
ization is realized by introducing a low-pass Ô¨Ålter during the
deconvolution or inverse Fourier transform process. If the
matrix inversion is involved in the inverse scattering problem,
one can take the pseudoinverse transformation or, equiva-
lently, singular value decomposition method to regularize the
problem. In this approach, the effect of singular values smaller
than some threshold is neglected to obtain the well-behaved
solution. Another equivalent technique, known as Tikhonov
method, has also been proposed. It incorporates a properly
chosen well-posed problem into the original ill-posed one
to increase the stability of the resulting solution. All of the