A ﬁlter may be realized in any one of the following tech-
nologies: metallic waveguides (including coaxial lines), di-
electric waveguides, and planar transmission lines. Planar
ﬁlters are small in size, lightweight, and low in cost but have
usually a low Q value compared to waveguide and dielectric
resonator ﬁlters. In practice, high-quality band-pass and stop-
band ﬁlters that require high O resonators are made of wave-
guide and/or dielectric resonators. For narrow band realization
(less than 1.5%) with low insertion loss as well as broadband
application, extremely low-loss resonators are needed. Broad-
band applications (greater than 15%) with high slope-selectiv-
ity are possible. Generally, the broader the bandwidth is, the
higher the order of the ﬁlter. Moreover, the higher the required
slope-selectivity is, the higher the order of the ﬁlter. Single-
mode resonators arranged as direct coupled (Chebyshev or
Butterworth) or crosscoupled ﬁlters with elliptic transfer func-
tion response are possible. Dual-mode or multimode reson-
ators allow the realization of more than one electrically
equivalent resonator in a single physical cavity. These ﬁlters
are attractive for space applications due to their small size and
lightweight features.