as the current exceeds the threshold, it may be assumed that a
fault has occurred and a trip signal may be issued. The relay
based on this principle is called an instantaneous overcurrent
relay, and it is in wide use for protection of radial low-voltage
distribution lines, ground protection of high-voltage transmis-
sion lines, and protection of machines (motors and gener-
ators). The main issue in applying this relaying principle is
to understand the behavior of the fault current well, in par-
ticular when compared to the variation in the load current
caused by signiﬁcant changes in the connected load. A typical
example where it may become difﬁcult to distinguish the fault
levels from the normal operating levels is the overcurrent
protection of distribution lines with heavy ﬂuctuations of the
load. To accommodate the mentioned difﬁculty, a variety of
overcurrent protection applications are developed using the
basic principle as described previously combined with a time
delay. One approach is to provide a ﬁxed time delay, and in
some instances, the time delay is proportional to the current
level. One possible relationship is an inverse one where the
time delay is small for high currents and long for smaller ones.
The example shown earlier in Figure 9.7 describes an inverse
time characteristic, which may also be a very or extremely
inverse type. Further variations of the overcurrent relay are
associated with the use of the directional element, which is
discussed later. The issues of coordinating overcurrent relays
and protecting various segments of a distribution line are also
discussed later.