audio, images and video, are rapidly evolving as main avenues
for the creation, exchange, and storage of information. Rapid
advances in VLSI technology have made cost-effective process-
ing of extremely high-volume multimedia data as well as
efﬁcient storage and communication over high-bandwidth
networks possible. Chapter 6, ‘‘Multimedia Systems: Content-
Based Indexing and Retrieval,’’ by Faisal Bashir, Shashank
Khanvilkar, Ashfaq Khokhar, and Dan Schonfeld, addresses
multimedia (image and video) storage and encoding standards
(JPEG, MPEG, H.26.X) and explores many multimedia index-
ing and retrieval techniques. Chapter 7, ‘‘Multimedia Networks
and Communication,’’ by Shashank Khanvilkar, Faisal Bashir,
Dan Schonfeld, and Ashfaq Khokhar, offers comprehesive cov-
erage of many key topics, such as multimedia networks and
communication, including multimedia expectations (includ-
ing real-time characteristics, multicasting support, security,
and mobility support, etc.); best-effort internet support for
distributed trafﬁc requirements (including service models; in-
tegrated and differential services etc.); enhancing the TCP/IP
protocol stack to support functional requirements of distrib-
uted multimedia applications; and quality of service architec-
ture for third generation cellular systems.